Okay.
So we've reached the point in which we have our executable screen and our rocket can move upwards.
It's doing so because we typed 0.1 pixels in the Y axis.
However, we can't control the movement.
We're just entering it as a code so that is executed afterwards.
In this lecture, we'll learn how to control the movements of our rocket using our keyboard.
So in order to move our rocket to the left and right, we'll use the directional keys.
So let's delete this line.
So it was only a demonstration.
So just like Phil told you before, when we talk about Pi game, we're talking about events to everything
that happens on the screen is an event and everything that's done with the keyboard during the PI game
execution is also an event.
You can program the results those events lead to.
We're about to program what will happen after the user presses a key.
If the user presses the left or right arrow key, the rocket should move accordingly.
So let's go to the line where our loop checked all the events where it found the quit event for closing
the window and where it is running is false.
And let's create another if to check if every type is equal to pi gain dot key down.
It doesn't matter which key it is.
This just checks whether a key has been pressed or not.
If this happens, we'll check if that key that is EV key is equal to PI game dot key left.
Now it will check whether the press key is the left arrow key.
If so, we'll just print something on the screen in order to make sure this works.
We'll print something like left arrow key pressed.
This will not be displayed on the screen, but on the console.
We're just doing this to verify this is working properly.
Then we'll check if the right arrow key was pressed too.
So let's copy this and we'll type key right here and right arrow key pressed here.
Is it clear?
So inside the same loop that checked if this previous event had occurred, we can also check if a key
has been pressed.
If that's the case, then it will verify it if it was left or right.
Arrow key.
It should be highlighted that the key down event takes place when the user holds a key down.
If the user releases the key, we're talking about the key up event.
Therefore, we could also program something for the second event if we wanted.
So we'll verify if every type is equal to PI gain key up.
If the user releases a key, we'll check if it was the right or left arrow key.
So copy and paste this and add.
Or to make a comparison and copy and paste this as well.
This if is not necessary.
So by so, if either of them was released, the software will print, the key was released, and let's
execute this to see what happens.
Here we have our screen containing our little rocket, which is not moving.
I'll press the right arrow key, and I want you to notice the message in the console.
Right arrow key pressed.
I'm holding this key down and I haven't released it.
If I do, we'll read the message.
The key was released.
Okay, that's what happens.
However, if I press any of the key, say up arrow, R or G, nothing happens.
That's because I haven't programmed any subsequent event for those keys.
We can display a brief message after key down before it checks.
Which key was pressed.
Or print something like a key has been pressed.
So let's execute it.
And look, if I press the right arrow key, the software tells me a key has been pressed, right arrow
key pressed.
And when I release it, it tells me the key was released.
So I'll press R now and it reads a key which has been pressed and if I release it, nothing happens.
Remember that the software informs us that the key has been released only if it was the left or right
arrow key.
In other words, you can program subsequent events for each key, whether you press it or release it.
So as a result, we'll be able to control our characters behavior and have it changed accordingly to
the press key.
Moreover, all this will determine the character's movements and directions.
So let's go back here and where we first modified our praise location and we'll add one more variable
named Player X.
Change.
This variable will store a value that corresponds to our player's position as regards the x axis.
So let's make it be zero for now, and we don't want to change as soon as our code starts running.
What we want is that this value changes dynamically as the loop iterates and verifies if an event has
occurred.
So let's delete this first print and we no longer need it.
Instead, we'll be working with these two prints which notify if the left or right key has been pressed.
So instead of saying left arrow key pressed, it will say that the player x change variable is no longer
equal to zero but -0.1.
We will copy this line so that if the right arrow key is pressed, the value changes to 0.1, thereby
moving a character to the right.
We also need that our rocket stops moving when the player releases the key.
So in key up will replace this print with the same line, but this time it will be equal to zero so
that the movement stops.
So we've only change the values in the player x change variable so far.
This doesn't change the behavior of the rocket.
To do so, we have to go to the player call and before it calls player and modifies its movements.
Through these parameters, we have to modify the variable, storing its position on the x axis, which
is player x we add plus equals and it should be equal to whatever value that's contained in player x
change.
So that should do it.
Let's execute it.
Here's our rocket and it's not moving.
I'll press the right arrow key, and I'm holding it down.
And the rocket is still moving.
I released the key, and the rocket will stop moving.
Let's try the left one.
Great.
Now the user can control the movements, and I think it's.
I think it's rather slow.
If we want to change the speed, we can enter 0.3 as value.
Let's see if this makes our rocket move faster.
Yeah, I personally think it's much better.
Perfect.
Still a rocket disappears once it reaches the edges of the screen.
That's not the idea.
So let's bring it back.
And in the next lesson, we're going to find out a way to prevent our rocket from going through those
edges.
See you there.